Hey there, welcome to the posit data science hangout. I'm Libby Heron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12pm US Eastern time. If
you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there.
Hey everybody, happy Thursday and welcome to the hangout. I'm filling in for Libby today
if you can't tell. So if we haven't had a chance to meet yet, I'm Rachel, I lead customer
marketing at posit and I'm so excited to bring in our featured leader today, Kevin Dalton,
senior data scientist at Great American Insurance Group. And Kevin, would you be able to introduce
yourself and maybe share a little bit about the work that you do today as well as something
you do for fun?
Sure, absolutely. So welcome everybody, excited to be here at the hangout, have been a big
fan for a lot of years. My name is Kevin, I'm a data science, insurance data scientist.
So what does that mean in practice? It means I do a lot of work with actuaries, insurance
companies like to consider themselves as really old school data science. We've been
doing this for a long time. My background was originally in economics. I was trained
as an economist, financial economics. Then I took, I worked in the insurance industry
for many years and I took off some time to become a professional skydiver. So I worked
as a working skydiver for about 15 years and which is pretty fun, not as glamorous, as
well paid as you might imagine. And now I've been back working in insurance data science
focused areas for about six years. So that's kind of a brief history about me. I work for
Great American Insurance Group. We're a very large American insurer and I work in the predictive
analytics business data, predictive analytics group. And we are what's generally referred
to as like a corporate resource. So underwriting groups, we're very decentralized company can
come to us for their data science and analytics needs. We have several different groups, one
of which builds what would be considered sort of traditional insurance actuarial models
that's for bread and butter. How do we price? How do we segment? How do we market? Those
kinds of things. But we also have, I think some of the more exciting things now, which
are computer vision and natural language processing agent models in the AI sense of that as well.
So that's what I do day to day. I'm an individual contributor. So half of my time is really
spent between theory and then half of it spent between sort of implementing that. I'm also
big into MLOps now. So hopefully that wasn't too much or too fast.
Oh, that's great. I think that's the first professional skydiver we've had. Are there
any other professional skydivers in the chat? I think some people maybe want to go skydiving
with you.
It's a good time. Oh, what do I like to do for fun? I actually am a big kind of nerd
about programming and stuff like that. So I've been writing a lot of code recently,
but I have little kids and I like to go out and be outdoors with them. So I live in Boulder,
which if you know anything about Boulder, you know, it's all, everyone's outdoors with
their dogs all the time. So it's fun.
Love it. Well, Kevin, I had the privilege to get to meet you a few months ago at the
Pawsit.com registration desk. And I just want to say thank you for your kind words about
the hangout. And I was looking back at my notes on my phone, because I can't remember
anything from comps. But I was like, get Kevin on as a featured leader! Lots of exclamation
marks. So thank you for being here.
No problem. Yeah, sorry, big fan of our studio and sort of the Pawsit now. I remember when
they, I was sitting there when the, I told Connor this, I was sitting there when they
announced it. And I was like, this is so smart. I'm so glad they're doing this. I think you
guys have done amazing work for the community. And I've been involved with the art community
for a long time. And, you know, you guys have, you guys are doing the, you guys are doing
the work that needs to be done. I really appreciate it.
Oh, thank you. One of the other notes that I had from that conversation, though, was
around some conversation we had at that desk around little P and big P production. And
I think something I want to talk about today. Before we even do that, what does it actually
mean to put models into production at an insurance company?
Yeah, that's a great, that's a great question. I appreciate it. For you'll see, and I've
seen this a lot. I mean, you'll see from the very, very unsophisticated to the very sophisticated.
So, you know, a model for insurance company can be just a very simple linear model, or
it can be something very, very sophisticated telematics type model. And you'll see most
of that's sort of heavily weighted towards the simple linear models. You know, we're
trying to segment different risks based on different classifications. I always use the
sort of blue cars are better than red cars kind of thing, right? Right. Did we know about
our young drivers, those kinds of things. And great. And we have this, we have this
great analysis. Now, how do we get it on the road? How do we put that out there? For a
long time, insurance models were very static. You know, they, and some of them still are,
they have to be fine in the US, they have to go before a regulator that says this. So
it was okay to hard code them or put them in a spreadsheet or put those sort of coefficients
in there. So that could be being in production, right? You could get a data set every month
and say, Hey, score this for me. And that would be that. Now it's moving more towards
automated production, automated inference to sort of cloud centric, real time inference
engines where an underwriter, for example, can input the data into an underwriting system.
And part of that underwriting system takes that data and hits a hits an inference engine
and gives them a score back. So that's where we're moving. That's where I see the industry
moving, but a lot of it is still, you know, sometimes I, sometimes my production system
is a, is a notebook. I give new data to, so, but that, you know, whatever, whatever works.
So we're moving towards that, but those are never, notebooks are hard to, hard to productionalize
as, as I'm sure you all know, right. And it's not something that's easy to go back
and then say, why did we do this? Which is where we want to be now, but that's what it
means for insurance companies.
Thank you. How do you actually explain that to people at the company that there's this
need for two different types of production?
I, I've read, it's a great, great, great question. I haven't really had to explain it. I think
the need has just been so obvious to everyone that like, why does it take so long to get
something back? Why are we waiting? Why is it hard? It doesn't have to be, you know,
but you have to, you have to be willing to do the engineering, put the systems in place,
think about, the tools you're going to use, you know, Posit Connect, Posit Workbench,
whatever, whatever it's going to be, or you're going to, you're going to code it yourself.
I think, that's more of my communication role of that is, is to how we do it rather than
why. Everyone wants to go faster. Everyone wants to do, I guess what, I didn't come up
with this, but I really like it, analytics at speed. So, everyone wants to go faster
and you can't go faster unless you have this productionalized pipeline.
Thank you. I'm starting to get a lot of questions coming into Slido. I'm having to get back into
my multitasking mode that Libby is looking at. But Edward, I see you asked a question
that has had lots of upvotes here. Do you want to jump in next?
Hey, y'all hear me?
Yeah.
All right. Let me go to Slido, get the words. So, a lot of companies are integrating like
large foundation models, like LLMs into their like processing and analytics pipelines.
But as an owner of an old computer and at a company that's kind of like AI adverse,
I do a lot of my work with LLMs on small language models that can run on my
local machine. And I get some great effect out of it. It's smaller, but have you guys in a large
company found any application for smaller language models in like production pipelines?
Not to, not specifically those smaller train models. Certainly, I kind of do some of that
for fun. I just got a NVIDIA DGX Spark myself, right? So, I've got a little ability to kind of
run these small models and I'm trying that out. Ours are bigger at this point, I think,
just because we have enterprise resources, but I second all the things that you said.
I think that's really cool that you're doing that. So, thank you.
Awesome. Thank you.
I see some questions coming in about skydiving.
Oh, yeah.
And we want to go over to one was an anonymous question that was,
are there any lessons from the skydiving experience that you apply to your data science work?
Absolutely. Actually, I talk about that all the time. So, I'll kind of link these two,
because I see somebody said, what does a professional skydiver do? So,
most professional skydivers teach, so they take tandem. I'm sure if you've seen it, a lot of
people have interacted with the tandem, right? You go to a skydiving thing and we hook you up like
your baby Bjorn and we go to the airplane and we jump out and there's two of us, one parachute
kind of thing. So, that's kind of the day-to-day bread and butter. What I did a lot was, just
because my background is, I did a lot of sort of military instruction. So, teaching military
parachuting, that's my background. And I always say that most of it is like guidance counselor.
Skydiving is pretty easy. It looks like you're doing a lot, but mostly you're just falling,
which everyone can do. Trust me, gravity takes over for that. But most of it is,
you know, sort of the psychology of that. And so, that has kind of come over to
a new skill for me. Well, a new skill for me, something I've been working on a lot
is the people side of data science, of trying to understand my customers, trying to
understand my co-workers. There are a lot of, and I mean this in the best possible way, there are
just a lot of quirky people in data science and that they're just awesome and good to work with,
but the communication styles are so different sometimes. So, like being able to work with so
many, being able to see so many different people and talk to them and skydiving has really helped
me do that. So, I wouldn't have traded it, but the people skills that I've learned has been very good.
But mostly I just am a human carnivore, mostly I was a human carnivore ride, so if that makes sense.
I love it. I can imagine you have people who get up there and maybe need to be talked into it a
little bit. I was just to tell them, I'm like, I'm not going to make you go, but just remember
the skydive's free, it's the plane ride you paid for. So, I'm helpful, you're more than
welcome to ride back down with the plane, but we're keeping your money.
Well, I see there is another anonymous question I'm going to jump to.
That was, what recent innovative ML models in the insurance sectors
have you brought live, if you're allowed to share?
Yeah, I am. I think some of the things that I think are innovative are, we have been doing a
lot of work with sort of Bayesian hierarchical models in the insurance space and actually
getting that to work at scale is something that's been near and dear to my heart. We have some
very weird distribution insurance. So, if you think about, if I could put my statistics geek
hat on here for a second, we have very non-normal things, real distributions that are
very right skewed. Most insurance policies are zeros, they don't have any losses, but then the
ones that do can be very right skewed. And so, being able to put that together in a Bayesian
framework and get that to work at scale has been something that's been near and dear to my heart,
really challenging to do, especially since we have things like the Tweedy distribution,
which some of you may or may not know about, which are no closed form solutions. So,
we have to do it all numerically. So, we've been working on that. That's really cool.
There are, as you can imagine, a lot of great, we were working on natural language processing
before it was really cool, before there was ChadGPT and those kinds of things, the original
BART models, because we take a lot of text, a lot of unstructured documents. And so,
we've been working on those to get those on the road, but those are really cool.
Thank you. As someone who's not a data scientist, I've noticed that whenever Bayesian is mentioned,
there's this community around it that gets very excited. And I was wondering, why is it like that?
Or can you explain to me a little bit more about what it is?
Yeah. I look at it as a probabilistic program. It's a different way. The statisticians,
I guess the non-familiar way to look at it is there's two camps. There's this Frequentist camp
and there's Bayesian camp, which I don't think is true that much anymore, because I think graduate
statistics programs are pretty much sort of this probabilistic Bayesian framework goes a long way.
You'll see it in, I think it's become super popular because of Richard McElroy's book,
Statistical Rethinking, has come back and you see this. And a lot of different non-statisticians
have picked non-data scientists to pick that up and epidemiology. And it's just the right way to
look about things. And it's just one of those things I think you're passionate about. I'm
very passionate about it. And I always explain to people, I go, everyone's a Bayesian. It's how you
cross the street. You're like, well, here's my prior and then here's likelihood. And I get a
big kick out of people explaining it to me like, oh, what's your modeling strategy? And they're
like, oh, well, I have a thought and then I have some data, but then I'm going to do this. I go,
okay, so you've just described a prior and a likelihood. Why don't we just do it that way?
But it's always been super hard to do, unless you want to do some toy example, but now it's not.
Well, it's still hard to do, but now we can do non-toy examples. But
there's only one art community I've found more,
I guess, passionate than the Bayesian group, and that's the spatial group. They're fun, too.
Thank you. I always love hearing about the things that people are very passionate about.
Michael, I see you asked a question over in Slido. Do you want to jump in here next?
Yeah, sure. Thanks. I've been using R for, gosh, I don't know, at least 15 years.
All right.
And the firm I am at now, I started, we were fairly small, maybe 70 people or so, now we're
close to a thousand. And so I had the luxury at that point of being able to dictate what we use.
So most of a lot of the core infrastructure was R. But I've been using R for a long time.
But I feel like I'm in a bit more of a minority now. And so trying to integrate workflows for
people who are more focused on Python, things like reticulate can get you pretty far,
but sometimes that only takes you so far. So I'm just curious to hear from you or others
even in chat of people who are at its core, kind of spend a lot of time in R, but to the extent
that you need to kind of work with folks who are maybe more Python, like I'm kind of at that point
where do I feel like I need to force myself to just get better at Python and come to terms with
that? Or if people have found other ways that are effective at maybe compartmentalizing,
using certain things for what they're good at. But again, it's hard because if everyone's not
speaking exactly the same language, then there's some frictions there. So especially when it comes
to production and deployment, like the research maybe is a little bit less critical, but even
then there's frictions because you'd like to be able to reuse research code as much as possible.
And generative AI certainly makes it easier to refactor that. But anyway, I'm just curious
if there's strategies you've found effective at kind of bridging the gap effectively.
That's a great question. And I don't know if I have any great thing about strategies. I can tell
you what I do. I use a lot of Python. I use a lot of R and I go back and forth between the two.
I might probably, maybe I might misquote Emil here when I think we were talking about it a couple
months ago. He said the difference between R and Python is which flavor of C wrappers you prefer.
And I kind of look at it the same way. I always just tell people like what's the right tool for
your job, right? And sometimes it's R and sometimes it's Python. So I guess people like that thought
that was a funny joke, but I think it's true to me. I learned in C a million years ago when
dinosaurs walked the earth and I'm like you. I started using R when it was basically S plus
before there was even RStudio. And to me, they seem very similar and they seem very familiar to
me. I'll tell you my strategies locally and that recently has been saying use Positron.
And I have to admit that when it came out, I started using it. I guess as soon as they
released it, I downloaded and built it from source. And I have a little note. I'm going to
frame it one day. It was like, who is this for? Right? Because I just know how passionate people
are about RStudio and I use VS Code a lot. And now I finally completely 100% get it. And I'm
working on a project now that is, you know, same repo. It's got UV in it. It's got RV in it, which
I'm a huge fan of, right? And then Positron has just got both environments going. I'm writing
Python code. I'm writing R code. I like to tell people I go, you know, maybe 20 years from now,
there'll be two dialects of the same sort of data science language. But I tell people,
if I can just circle back to your question, my strategy is to use the right tool for the job.
Sometimes that's Python and often it's R. And if you, you know, if you sit down and think about it,
I think you're going to accomplish the same things in both languages. Just what's more
convenient for you to do that. But thanks for your question. It's a great question.
Thanks, Kevin. And I was just about to ask you about Positron. So, I'm glad that you
already got that there. What was the main thing that got you from who is this for to using it?
I just think I started to use it, right? Because, you know, I tried with, I don't know what the
experience has been with VS code and R, right? And I had high hopes for it, right? Because I
use a lot of Jupyter notebooks in Python and I really like that. And then, but it never really
worked well. It just was hard to use. And so, I think Positron and the work that that team has
done to make it very R-centric as well as Python-centric has been great. You know, it's my
daily driver. I use VS code less and less, find out myself using VS code less and less unless I
have just a pure Python, you know, with C kind of focus group on it. But I knew I could do the
same thing in Positron. So, I think it's the next, I joked with Connor once, I was like, you know,
you guys are going to be maintained in RStudio forever still though, right? Because it's such
a passionate crowd around it. And I think it's great. And I grew up, not grew up on it, but,
you know, I've used RStudio for a long time and I thought this was really good, but I think
Positron's the next step. And yeah. But I did wonder who it was for. I was like, man, who,
and I said that because I'm like, I just know people who, they were like, you know,
you will take RStudio when you pry it from my cold dead hands, right? So, and I'm sure there's,
they're, I'm sure they're out there. So. Yeah, absolutely. And we love RStudio too.
We love it. Actually, while we're talking about tools a bit, could you share a little
bit about what your tool stack looks like at Great American Insurance Group?
Sure. You know, we have a lot of, you know, we are building out our,
to the extent I can talk about this, you know, we're building out our sort of Posit
workbench and team deployment now. It's very, we like a lot of enterprises are heavily invested in
Snowflake now. So that's primarily what our tech stack looks like. But, you know,
we have the ability to sort of individual contributors have the ability to work
locally as well as that, which we're trying to move that over in the ML ops. And so
my, you know, into the, into the weeds, I alluded to it a little bit, you know,
my tech tech stack now seems to be a lot of Python with UV and Rust, which I'm a huge fan of,
and R with RV, which I know is sort of still kind of newish, but for me, it works really,
really well, better than, dare I say it better than RIM. And I really like it. So that's my tech
stack. And again, it built up from there, but I do write some Fortran. I still write some C,
so it kind of compilers in there and go with that. But.
Thank you. I might need some help from people in the chat, sharing the links to those packages.
But so you actually run Posit within Snowflake. Is that right?
We do. Yeah. We, so we, we run it as a, as a containerized service inside Snowflake.
And that allows us to, it's a great idea. I think, you know, we're big,
we're big Snowflake users and Snowflake is super powerful from a data engineering side and from,
from inference side, and it can do a lot of good things and Snowflake container services is great.
Now, you know, you can run Python, you can serve Python models from there. You can serve
R models from there. Once you get the, once you get some of the idiosyncrasies of where the way
Python treats the list and R treats the list, you can get that figured out, but feel free to
hit me up if you ever run into that roadblock. I spilled a lot of brainpower on that, but
Thank you.
You can do it. And it's, and it's great. And you, you know, you get all the authorization,
you get all that for free, which is kind of why we like it. But that's good. You know,
our hope is to move to the full, the full Posit team stack and that, and to,
you know, to an actual deployment of, you know, Hey, this would be from,
you know, from a small P deployment to a big P production environment kind of thing. So.
Awesome. Thank you. Thanks everybody for sharing all those links in the chat. I really appreciate
it. Frank, I see you had asked a question a little bit ago. Do you want to jump in here next?
Yep. I can unmute. Sorry about that. Also. Hi everyone.
We have to try and find people to unmute.
All good. Yeah. I'm thankful to have found this group. I was referred here
last week, so it's good. So my question for joining us.
My question for Kevin is I come from a data engineering and AI engineering background.
And one of the first things that we did when deploying models is we would put
guardrails around them just as you know, in case it starts spitting out nonsense that nothing falls
apart. What sort of guardrails are you using that are specific to insurance to guard against that
kind of drift? Let's see what I can talk about. So general things that you might understand,
right? Like, so we have a model monitoring process that is working with as real data comes in
to make sure that it meets certain standards, that as the data crosses from the threshold,
from the data engineering to the model inference threshold, it meets certain requirements. And
there's a couple of different packages out there, both Python and R that do really, really well to
sort of funnel that in and make sure that everything's good to go. And a lot of it,
we sort of stress the data scientists and the developers, your model can't be brittle to these
sort of things, right? Like, if you're predicting blue cars, red cars, it can't break when somebody
says space shuttle, right? It can't just break it and say, I don't know what to do with the space
shuttle. I mean, it has to fail intelligently. So we do that. And we have some different kind
of insurers have different sort of standards. So health insurer, which I'm not, right? They're
going to have very specific legal and ethical standards around what kind of data they can use
and what sort of model drift is acceptable to that. We have less of that. We're ensuring
buildings and cars and stuff like that. But we're also very sensitive to
models in all stripes being just quote unquote discriminatory. So we have some setups around
that. So a lot of it, I would think to answer your question is on three fronts, sort of data,
and then make sure that the inference itself isn't out of line with what we would expect,
or it doesn't fail brittly, right? It fails intelligently if it can do that. And then
model checks of discrimination. One of the things that I've been working on lately is to,
speaking of generative AI, is to use generative AI to build synthetic data sets that test it,
that test the model drift, and are designed to be edge cases and are designed to come up with
clever ways, almost like having it write unit tests for you. But now it writes model monitoring
tests. So there's a whole another, so beyond unit testing for software and models and beyond
integration tests, model tests, right, that are using things like Y data accumulator,
those guys are doing great things with generating simulated data, synthetic data sets,
using generative AI to bang on it, basically, and make sure that it falls apart. But
that's a great question. Thanks. If I could have a follow up about the intelligent data generation,
do you think that'll be the future when it comes to test driven development?
I do, but I'm not an expert in the field. I mean, that's what I'm, that's the road I'm going down.
I think it's a great, you know, I'm not some, I'm not a developer by training. Certainly,
I've picked up a couple of things, and I'm always struggling to sort of put my education out there,
you know, unit test, which is probably simple for a lot of people. And now it is, but for me,
it took me forever to bang my head on. And now, it's so easy, right? Like, I just am developing,
and I've got two developers working beside me that happen to be generative AI. And I'm like,
okay, great, write a unit test. It's going as we're doing. And I think that's, you know, people
are like, oh, that you can have an opinion about that. My opinion is that it just makes me way
better as a developer. Or it makes me a developer period versus whatever I am now. And but, yeah,
the synthetic data, I think is fascinating, right? Because even well tested models, I see fail,
but I see fail because of edge cases. And so, the ability to kind of go out there and hit those edge
cases, I think is super cool. Thank you. Awesome. Yeah, thank you.
I see, I think, so sorry, trying to read the questions at the same time. Isabella had shared
one with me that she saw on the Slido. But while we're talking about synthetic data,
what are some of your favorite public data sources for trying to quantify model things
like geopolitical risk? I don't do anything with geopolitical risk. I mean, I know,
I kind of, I think I know where you're going with that. Like, there are insurance policies,
insurance carriers that do that as a specialty. I've never worked in that. I've worked in a lot
of areas of insurance, but like, I've never worked in anything like that. We do use a lot
of public, I use a lot of public data sources about certainly spatial statistics. So there's
a lot of great APIs out there. We have a large crop, you know, we have a large crop insurance
division. So there's a lot of public data sets available for that. So I've much recent hiccups
aside, the US government produces a lot of spatial data, a lot of data specific to what you
use, but I'm always searching. I'd actually turn this question around. Why don't you tell me some
great sources you're using? Yeah, we'd love to hear that in the chat. And I guess on this same
topic, I think there was another Slido question that was, if you want to learn more about using
the tools you mentioned for building synthetic data, where would you recommend that people start?
Are there specific packages that you really love or like other than just Googling build
synthetic data set? No, I think Hugging Face is a great place. There's some great sort of
smaller models there. It's part of the reason I, much to my wife's chagrin of like, what is
this package in the mail? Bought my NVIDIA DGX local supercomputer. And to put these models into
there and run them locally. So I wasn't paying $200 a month on that, but to generate these.
There used to be a package, a company, I think it's called Ydata now, but they used to,
I mean, they still do, but it used to be called Pandas Profiling. Now it's called Ydata Profiling.
And they would take in sort of Pandas datasets and give you, here's a profile of it. Now they've
sort of added AI to their name and pivoted over to, we helped build generative AI
synthetic datasets. That's a good place. That's where I started. I'm sure there are better places.
Also, if I can make a plug for it, I think some of the new Codex GPT, I've been working on that as a
sort of large scale model to kind of guide me with that. But Hugging Face is a great place
to find some of these models, I think. Awesome. Thank you. I see Trupti,
you asked a question over in Slido. Can I call you in here next?
Hey, thank you, Rachel, for picking my question. So hi, Kevin, Trupti here. Hi. Sorry, my video is
off. So I worked for an insurance, auto insurance client back in 2019. And we worked on identifying
underwriting frauds, like misstated mileage, incorrect number of drivers or incorrect zip
code to lower down their premium amount. And we use clustering techniques to identify those
like clusters wherein there is a fraud. So with the AI evolving, what kind of techniques
are being recently used? I would like to learn more on that.
Yeah, that's a great question. And I haven't worked in that recently. So I'm probably the
last time I worked on it was probably around the same time you worked on it, right? So use the same
sort of clustering techniques. So unfortunately, I don't, I don't, I'm just gonna have to say I
don't really know what's being done with that lately, because I've just been working on other
things. But it's a great question. I'm sure that some, you know, I'm sure that some very clever
people are doing that, because it's a fraud is a huge problem. Like we build fraud models,
like as banks do, and those kind of things, right to find those sort of things. And the level of
sophistication is just going up and up and up. But I haven't used anything generative AI to look for
underwriting fraud. So I see. Yeah.
Talking about AI, as well, Zach had asked a question, there's asterisks. So I'll,
I'll ask it. But broadly, how is AI affecting your day to day work in the insurance industry?
Well, it's affecting the insurance industry. I can't speak for the whole industry. I mean,
I see it affecting it day to day a lot. You know, we're, we're, there's a lot of
a lot of startups, a lot of sort of Fin, I guess, insure tech is what they call it,
our little branch of FinTech. They're just, you know, thick on the ground people starting
these, especially for unstructured data. You know, we, we generated a lot of paper back in the day.
And now we generate a lot of PDFs. And, you know, the ability to, to get those and process them,
quickly is a huge, most money's being thrown at that. I think, from a data science perspective,
it's changed my day to day tremendously. You know, like I said, I, I, both theory now,
and on the development side, you know, I sit there with a one or two, at least one, probably two
different models running along beside me, you know, and I think it's not a shame to admit it.
Because I'm certainly not a great developer, a great coder, but are even a great statistician,
but I'm constantly using those and those tools to make me better at what I do. And so that's,
I think it's changed for everyone. Certainly in the development there. You know, you can see it
in the tools that are out in Positron, right, like they're being implemented there. I'm racing
to, I mean, I think it's a huge deal as for your career to keep learning, certainly in this field.
But, you know, it's just added, trying to learn the basics of it, how to learn and train my own
models and how to run my own models locally and how to, how to generate your own agentic AI and
train your own agents, Langraph, Linkchain are really great with that too. And I don't do that
just because I like it, although it is very, it is fascinating to me, but I do it to say, okay,
how can I do, how can I make, be a better data scientist, better developer, approach this
problem? How else would I do this? And I think some of the foundational models out there are
getting spookily good at it. I mean, for a glorified, you know, for a glorified piece of
linear algebra, it's getting pretty good. Isabella, Isabella thought that was funny.
I'm going to ask this question a little bit earlier than we normally do at the Hangout,
but I love getting to hear all the career advice that is shared by featured leaders.
And I'd love to ask you, is there a piece of career advice that's been especially meaningful
to you, whether it's something that you've heard from a mentor or you've given this advice to other
people? Yeah, I think the bit of advice that I think is most important to me and that I would
give is, especially with the tools that are out there now, what you really need to focus on is
your sort of business area. You know, if you want to work in insurance, learn about insurance,
the data science, the statistics of that is there, you can learn it. Keep learning that,
always that, but really focus on understanding that. You know, when I learned data science,
sort of came back in from Scott Iving to learn data science, you know, I always heard that,
well, you know, domain expertise and whatever, right? Like, you know, we're here to build
models and do theory and get the math right and get the statistics right. But
I think I underplayed it. Now I think I've, you know, I'm an individual contributor. I enjoy the
theory. I enjoy the models. I hope that's what I get to stay doing and developing. But, you know,
the ability to understand the problem itself is probably still remains understated. So, you know,
keep learning and become a domain, you know, be as, get as much expertise in your domain as you
can. Those would be my advice, but. Yeah. Sorry, go ahead. How would you advise people
do that before they've gotten a chance to do a job in that industry?
I don't think you can. You know, I, there's no way to bootstrap your way into it. I think for
people joining data science in the industry. Uh-oh, we might need to go to somebody else for
this question temporarily while we get Kevin back. I'm curious in the chat, does anybody
have some words of wisdom here to share on getting domain experience before you have a
chance to actually work in that industry? Yeah, I've been a professional recruiter for
like more than 30 years. I would recommend everything. Send notes to people saying,
hey, can I shadow you for a day and call off on that day? I saw something recently I just loved.
Um, reading gets you the general stuff. Articles gets you the applied stuff.
Read, study articles, go to meetings, meetups, form a group if you have to, but, um, don't take
anything of like, you know, oh gee, you can't do it too. You can do anything. Okay. Um, put your
energy, put your enthusiasm into it. And it's amazing what you can actually do. Um, and as a
person that's hired more than 15,000 people, I can tell you, I don't necessarily hire for skills.
I hire for passion, drive, enthusiasm. So if you say, hey Russ, I did this on Saturday when I was
on my own time, guess what? You're screaming at me that you're interested and I want to transition
into dah, dah, dah. Great. Um, no, I didn't fire 15,001. No, it's not even close. Um, so yeah,
there are lots of ways, uh, read, study, join groups, um, shadow people, um, all that kind
of stuff so that when you walk in, you can do it. And then the other thing, I'll just make this
really, really quick. Uh, the extreme majority of people, when they apply for a job, send a resume
and their resumes are crappy, by the way, that's a whole other issue. But the people who get hired,
I'm going to send a resume letter, recommendation stuff they posted on GitHub, you know, LinkedIn.
So they're going to show, Hey, I care. I'm passionate. I know how to do this. I'm walking
in. I might never have gotten paid to do this, but tada, I'm Babe Ruth and I'm going to hit a
grand slam every time you give me the ball. Thank you, Russ. Arsenis, I see you had your hand raised
and then I see Kevin's back. So we'll jump back to him too, but Arsenis would love to hear your
thoughts on this. Cool. Thanks. Yeah. So, um, uh, so I agree with everything Russ just said about,
uh, reading everything, joining groups, all that stuff. The one thing that I would add to that is,
um, pick a dataset that's related and do a small project as small as it might be.
The reason for that is that you begin to understand how the, how the data play into
some of the questions that you might have to deal with, um, in the real world. And I say this as a
person who, uh, kind of has the opposite experience of Russ. He is, he's hired 15,000 people. I had
been hired, not quite 15,000 times, but I've, I've been through a lot of industries, uh, from
aviation to clinical sciences to economics and, you know, what have you. So the, the way, the way
that I've been able to successfully go from one industry to another, um, though I'm kind of, I
think I'm done doing that. Um, the way I've done that successfully is, um, by just doing small
projects before I actually start my job. And that also gives me a little bit of insight into, um,
what I still need to learn before jumping in. So it kind of tells you what, where your weaknesses
are as well. Thank you. As you were saying that I was getting flashbacks to Ryan's hangout last
week, talking about his Lego side project. And then he started working at Lego. Um, Kevin,
glad to have you back. Are you good now? There you go. Okay. Sorry about that. Yeah. Um,
so what'd I miss? No, those all sounded, those all sounded like great advice. Uh,
I think I was talking about it. Like I don't, um, uh, I will just add, I think that's all great
advice. Um, I haven't used myself of building sort of a portfolio. I see it, I see it out there. I
don't think it's bad advice. Um, I think if you can, um, I guess the things that I'm trying to do
for myself, and I just will speak for myself. I think I'm trying to, um, get involved in
open source. So I think if you can be, if you can find a hook into the open source, uh, software
analytics side of the community that you would like to develop domain expertise, I think you
can learn a lot. You can learn a little about the data and certainly that gives you an opportunity
to show your work as a data scientist, as developer. So, um, that's what, that's all I
would add. That's great. Thank you. Um, direction. Can I call you in next for your question? I think
this fits in well here too, as well. Let me go find you to unmute you. There you go.
Hi everyone. Hi, we can hear you. Okay. So, uh, my question is not about the tech stack or the tool,
uh, that, uh, Kevin is using like, uh,
Oh, I can, I think we may be having some sort of that.
I think we may be having some sort of issue across like zoom,
because it keeps getting a little choppy, but let's try it one more time.
I hope I'm audible now. Yeah, I'll, I'll, I'll ask one of your questions for you just while we're
having the zoom issue, but I see, um, direction had asked a question in Slido that was as an
experienced data scientist, which skills, uh, would you say are evergreen irrespective of the
tools that you're using? Not really about like tech stack, but skills like soft skills, good
data practices. Yeah, that's a, that's an amazing question. And one that, uh, I think is very, very
good. Um, like I said, cause I think that you can learn the tech, you can learn the statistics,
you can learn what you need to know. You can even learn the domain expertise. I think what's
going to make people last and allow you to last in the field, if that's your goal is the, is, and
it's trite. And I know people say it over and over, but it's the people skills. It's the ability to
work in a very diverse. And again, I mean, no disrespect. And I have to say no pejorative way
with a quirky bunch of sometimes neurodiverse people who, you know, are developers and data
scientists and data engineers and the ability to work with them and communicate with them, I think
is something that will put you in good stead. And it's very soft skill. I myself have been taking a
lot of courses and seeking a lot of mentorship and change management. Um, so people don't like
change surprisingly enough, right? Like all change is bad change. And so that's their, like, how do
you get them over that? How do you, how do you move up to that? That I think is so phenomenal
question. Thank you very much for that question. That is always a big thing for us, change management.
Tell us, what are you learning about change management?
You know, I apply it, I think in a corporate setting, I mean, you know, I think it's just a
great skill to have in life in a corporate setting, right? Like we are, we work across different groups
and sometimes it's, you know, herding cats. People don't like, I don't have to do what you say,
et cetera, et cetera. Right. And so the ability to lead without being a, lead people without being
a, an appointed leader or to influence people without being an influence leader. Right.
I think is extremely important. I can't downplay it enough. And I think if you want to last
in the industry, you're either going to have to be so good at writing code and doing data sciences
that, that, that your people just can't ignore you, or you're going to, you're going to have to,
to be able to do most of that in the way and then be great with people and great with the domain.
But honestly, I haven't hired 15,000 people. I have hired some people, right. But
I, I think we can get there on the tech stack. We can get there. I would rather,
much rather hire someone that I know I could work with and it's going to work with the team well,
and it's going to, I can count on them to have the understanding of soft people skills and
then the person who has just built, you know, the person who's just technically brilliant,
but you're just unable to deal with them. When you say seeking mentorship, what does that mean
for you? I think you said something around like seeking mentorship and change.
I'm, you know, I go into my boss, my boss's boss, the people across from that and saying, you know,
how do we do change management? How do you see it as change management? Who should I talk to?
Who should I know? You know, I'm a remote employee, which is great. It works for me and
my lifestyle and those kind of things. But I do go in, you know, I travel, I go into the office and
most of what my time is spent there is I'm going and, you know, who's the decision maker here?
Where's the point of leverage here? We need this particular tech stack. Like, how do I get that
done? I think it's just, you know, knowing the people and being able to communicate with them
is the key issue. And to seek mentorship is, you know, if I need to know something that I,
I guess the first step is acknowledging. I acknowledge that I don't understand
change management. I acknowledge that I'm probably not very good at it.
Same thing with the people skills. I probably don't have great people skills,
but what do I need to do to improve that, right? And then I go to people and ask
sort of humbly, like, hey, how can I be better?
Well, I would say in the hangout, you have great people skills, just saying.
But I was just interested in that because I, we talk about mentorship sometimes, but I know some
companies don't have these formal mentorship programs. And I've always wondered, like,
how do you go and find a mentor?
Yeah, I think somebody I saw in the chat, right? Like somebody was like, oh, you know, make them
just bother them until they say no. That's probably good advice is that being able to
being able to stick to it and, you know, find someone you respect that you're going to work
with that's going to mesh with you and that you think has got something and just go ask them.
I think people will be more willing than you would expect. Probably a little bit,
probably a little bit like dating. Maybe they're more afraid of you than you are of them, right?
And so just go and say, hey, how do I do this? I don't know. I think that genuine,
showing that genuine passion for it and how do I improve myself? People are always going to help
you. I'm in even an absence of a formal sort of mentorship program. I think most people probably
don't have a formal mentor. Yeah. Thank you. Michael, I see your hand was raised. Did you
have something that you wanted to add to this too? Oh, yeah. I was just going to say, I mean,
somewhat self-effacing humor. You know, I work in risk management. I've been doing this about
25 years and I've never until fairly recently made it a point to get out and socialize.
I mean, it sort of just happened kind of as part of my job. And so I always sort of just
joked about risk people are sort of antisocial. But I think in recent years, I just make a point
of like once in a while I'll reach out to somebody on LinkedIn and say, hey, you want to grab a
coffee? And like nine times out of 10, people are like, yeah, that's great. And so I'm like,
actually, maybe I was antisocial. And so, yeah, I think people love to talk about what they do.
And more often than not, if you just kind of reach out to someone who, especially if they're
close by, but even if they're not, are more than happy to kind of make the acquaintance and share
about what they do. So I think it works really well. Thank you. I realize that we are at the top
of the hour and I had not been looking at the clock and I'm out of practice of that, of rapid
firing questions to you. But Kevin, if it's okay, I'm going to try and ask two more questions.
Sure. Go ahead. I see there was an anonymous question that was, I'm a data scientist,
but only apply statistics sporadically. Do you have any strategies or advice for
keeping that statistical intuition sharp? I'll tell you what I do. I don't know if it's
great advice, is that I have a, I've got a whiteboard over here about statistical concepts
that I want to improve on and learn. And I get a book and I just go through it. I force myself to
put pencil to paper and do it. That's the only thing I can do.
You're not going to stay sharp until you,
you know, unless you do it over and over again, you have to apply statistics,
come up with a problem, go get some data, even if it's a small data set and do that.
So, yeah. Okay. One more question. I think it's from somebody who is an actuary. Okay.
How do you partner with actuaries at work? Are there, oops, I just scrolled. Are there things
that you need from the actuaries that make your job easier?
I think I partner pretty well. I mean, I have some actuarial education as well. And so,
understanding the difference between what an actuary does in an insurance company and a
data scientist would do in an insurance company, they're not always clearly defined.
I think understanding those roles and where their educational background is,
is the number one step to communicating with them. But, so if I can just make sure that I get
the answer to this question, right, is, because I do think it's very important inside the insurance
company because actuaries have a lot to offer. I think understanding that, you know, actuaries
have been doing this for a long time and they have some great insights, certainly statistically,
and because I say this all the time about GLMs, for example, you know, actuaries were doing GLMs
before there were GLMs. Same thing. And they came up with this in the 60s or even before. And, you
know, there's a complete one-to-one correlation between, or a one-to-one mapping between the sort
of models that they were running and an actual GLM. And so, being humble about that, I think,
is a great way to communicate with them. You know, what are they doing? What do they need?
I like to say that part of my job is to build tools for actuaries. So, I go to them and say,
hey, what can I do to make your job easier? What can I do to make your job more effective
as a data scientist? And that's my advice. So, and I see we're out of time, Rachel. So,
I tried to do that. Oh, thank you. Thank you so much, Kevin, for letting me get through a few
more questions there. Thank you all for all the great questions in FIDO. I'm sorry we're not able
to get to every single thing every week. But Kevin, I really appreciate you taking the time
to join up and share your experience. I'm very humbled to be able to speak to this community.
I love the R community. And I think that this Hangout has been certainly great for me. And
you can hit me up on LinkedIn. I'm not really a great big LinkedIn user, but I do check
occasionally. But I don't think you've updated your LinkedIn in years. Yeah, that's true. Kevin,
I was going to say he has a different company maybe on there. Yeah, I'm not very good at it.
And like I said, if I can be of any help to anybody, it would be my pleasure. But I'm very
grateful to be here. And like I said, everyone, I think we should all be very grateful for APOSIT
and the people there that are making R the kind of community that we all hoped it would be. So
thank you. Thank you, Kevin. And maybe one day we'll all go skydiving with you. Who knows?
Maybe. I just want to do a quick note that there is no Hangout next week. But happy Thanksgiving
to everybody. I hope you have a great week with your family and friends. We will be back on
December 4th with Matt Maloney from the City of Hope. City of Hope is one of the largest cancer
research and treatment organizations in the US. And I'm really excited to hear how they're
integrating POSIT with EPIC, their electronic health record. So I hope to see you back on the
4th. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, everyone. Bye.